137 overviews and nav integrity (#309)
FAIRmat-NFDI/nomad-docs: docs/index.md

hide: toc
---

> # Documentation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Home
```

Reviewer: Since the header of the page says `Documentation`, it seems redundant to have the same page title here. 
I was thinking that perhaps it is better to reflect the side navigation panel pages. So I suggest here `Home` as a title to this page.

NOMAD is an open-source research data platform for materials science. It helps researchers, labs, and developers make data FAIR: findable, accessible, interoperable, and reusable.

> Use this documentation according to the kind of help you need:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This documentation is organized into four sections. Use the section that best matches your need: learning, completing a task, understanding a concept, or finding technical information.
```

Reviewer: I suggest this text, in order to give an idea about the structure - and what kind of needs in one line. Then the reader can check the cards for further explanation.

If we agree on this, I would modify the sentences in each box to avoid using the `Use the ...` part as we indicated this in the above description, and to focus on the outcome according to diataxis. See suggestions below.

> <div markdown="block" class="home-grid">

Reviewer: The buttons currently don't align vertically to each other. It depends on the length of text in each card. I will add a suggestion to the modify the home-grid class in the styling file.

<div markdown="block">

## Tutorials

> Start here if you want to learn NOMAD by working through guided examples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn NOMAD step by step through guided, hands-on examples.
```

> - {{ nav_link("tutorial/overview.md") }}

Reviewer: I suggest to remove the link to the overview from all the cards. 
The button at the button takes to the overview page any way, and I feel that the list here should act as a quick link to specific topics.

> - {{ nav_link("tutorial/overview.md") }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - {{ nav_link("tutorial/explore.md") }}

Reviewer: This is also a general comment: 
The titles as taken from the navigation in mkdocs.yaml are not representative to the contents, especially for the subpages. Such as `With the GUI` and `Programmatically`.

I suggest to modify the `nav_link` module to capture the first header of each page instead.

Reviewer: I have attempted with copilot to implement this suggestion. I pasted the changed code to the relevant pages.

- {{ nav_link("tutorial/upload_publish.md") }}
- {{ nav_link("tutorial/upload_publish_api.md") }}
- {{ nav_link("tutorial/eln/built_in_templates.md") }}

[Open tutorials](tutorial/overview.md){:.md-button .nomad-button .nomad-button--card-action}

</div>
<div markdown="block">

## How-to guides

> Use how-to guides when you already know your goal and need task-oriented instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Accomplish specific tasks by following practical instructions.
```

> - {{ nav_link("howto/overview.md") }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- {{ nav_link("howto/plugins/plugins.md") }}
- {{ nav_link("howto/oasis/install.md") }}
- {{ nav_link("howto/develop/setup.md") }}

[Open how-to guides](howto/overview.md){:.md-button .nomad-button .nomad-button--card-action}

</div>
<div markdown="block">

## Explanation

> Use the explanation section for background, concepts, and architecture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Understand NOMAD's key concepts, architecture, and underlying mechanisms.
```

> - {{ nav_link("explanation/overview.md") }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- {{ nav_link("explanation/basics.md") }}
- {{ nav_link("explanation/processing.md") }}
- {{ nav_link("explanation/architecture.md") }}
- {{ nav_link("explanation/oasis.md") }}

[Open explanations](explanation/overview.md){:.md-button .nomad-button .nomad-button--card-action}

</div>
<div markdown="block">

## Reference

> Use the reference section for precise technical information such as configuration options, CLI commands, and schema details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Find detailed technical information such as configuration options, CLI commands, and schema details.
```

> - {{ nav_link("reference/overview.md") }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- {{ nav_link("reference/config.md") }}
- {{ nav_link("reference/cli.md") }}
- {{ nav_link("reference/annotations.md") }}
- {{ nav_link("reference/glossary.md") }}

[Open reference](reference/overview.md){:.md-button .nomad-button .nomad-button--card-action}

</div>
</div>

<!-- TODO: Revisit and update the below once the nomad-lab homepage refactor is complete. -->

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using NOMAD

Most examples in the documentation use **NOMAD Central**, the public FAIRmat-hosted NOMAD platform. There are two relevant deployments:

- [**Production**](https://nomad-lab.eu/prod/v1/gui/search/entries){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}: The primary deployment for day-to-day use and most documentation examples.
- [**Test**](https://nomad-lab.eu/prod/v1/test/gui/search/entries){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}: A separate deployment intended for testing features such as data publication. The underlying database is temporary and is periodically reset.

The majority of underlying concepts and workflows also apply to **NOMAD Oasis** deployments, although specific behavior may differ between installations depending on which plugins are installed.
```
